So let's do a deep dive
into the EC2Rescue tool.
We have two flavors.
We have the one for Linux and the one for Windows.
So this allows you to diagnose
and troubleshoot common issues with your EC2 instances.
It can gather syslog logs.
It can diagnose problematic kernel parameters.
It can diagnose common OpenSSH issues and so on.
You are, you have over 100 modules,
so quite a lot.
This works with Amazon Linux 2,
Ubuntu, Red Hats,
and other kind
of Linux distribution.
For this, you can install it manually,
or you can run an SSM automation document,
to just go ahead
and install the EC2Rescue tool.
And if you run, for example,
the TroubleshootSSL automation out of it,
then it's going to try to fix SSH issues,
going into the instance.
Now, the EC2Rescue tool, when it does output things,
it can send directly data into the supports engine.
So this gives data to the support of
AWS, if you ever need that.
Or you can upload the results directly into an S3 buckets.
So what could be use cases
for the EC2Rescue tool for Linux?
Well, number one,
is to collect system utilization reports such as,
vmstate, iostat, mpstats.
You can collect logs and details,
such as syslog, dmesg,
application error logs, and SSM logs.
You can detect system problems such as,
asymmetric routing or duplicate root device labels.
You can remediate system problems such as,
OpenSSH file permissions or
disabling non-problematic kernel problems.
And on top of it,
you could create your own custom module.
So the flavor for Windows server is good as well.
So you diagnose and troubleshoot common issues.
So all these things before,
you can collect log files,
troubleshoot issues, provide suggestions.
There are two modules.
There is the data collector and the analyzer.
This supports Windows Server 2008 and later.
And so when we want to have EC2Rescue
onto our EC2 instance,
all we have to do is to run command from SSM,
which will install it.
For example,
the run EC2Rescue tool for Windows.
The commands are CollectLogs,
to collect all the logs,
FixAll to fix things,
or ResetAccess, for example,
as we saw before,
to reset passwords.
Then if you wanted to troubleshoot connectivity issues,
for example,
we can just execute the EC2Rescue,
and the results can be uploaded directly into an S3 bucket.
So use cases for the rescue tool for Windows server
is around instance connectivity issues.
So firewall, RDP, or network interface configuration.
Any operating system boot issue such as,
a blue screen of death,
or a stop error,
or a boot loop,
or a corrupted registry.
It can gather OS logs and configuration files.
So, if you need more advanced
log analysis and troubleshooting.
And you can troubleshoot common OS issues such as,
disk signature collision,
and you can perform a restore.
Alright, that's it.
So just remember at a high level,
what this tool is,
but it should give you a bit more information
so you can understand it better.
So I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.